.TH SIDEQUEST 1
.SH NAME
sidequest \- play a tiny terminal game while waiting for a command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sidequest
.RI [ options ]
.B --
.I command
.RI [ arguments... ]
.PP
.B sidequest list
.PP
.B sidequest attach
.I session-id
.PP
.B sidequest runs
.PP
.B sidequest show
.I last|run-id
.PP
.B sidequest output
.I last|run-id
.PP
.B sidequest purge
.I run-id
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sidequest
runs a command in one tmux pane and opens a small terminal game in another.
The game pane is focused first and starts on the first move. When the command
finishes during a playable round, Sidequest pauses Snake and asks whether to
continue the current round or quit. Quitting finalizes the score and shows the
command state, exit code or signal, runtime, final score, and the local TOP 5.
.PP
Snake uses Command Heat. Heat rises with accumulated active Snake playtime,
speeds up Snake movement, increases the food score multiplier, and is capped at
the maximum Heat level. Time spent before the first move, paused, detached,
after round over, after command completion, or focused in the command pane does
not raise Heat. If the player continues after command completion, the reached
Heat level still controls Snake speed and food value.
.PP
.B F9
hides or restores the Sidequest UI by zooming the command pane inside the
isolated tmux session. The wrapped command and Snake state stay alive; gameplay
timers pause while hidden.
.PP
Round results can enter persistent local TOP 5 lists. Classic and Quest Mode use
separate leaderboards. A qualifying score opens a name-entry field in the result
panel, prefilled from the local
.IR username@hostname .
The player can edit it before saving; empty or invalid names are stored as
.BR YOU .
.PP
The Snake arena is capped, centered in large panes, and rendered with two
terminal columns per logical cell. Food placement prefers reachable cells within
the current Heat distance range.
.PP
Quest Mode displays combo, mission progress, active pickups and bonuses in the
game HUD. Random pickups appear directly in the arena and are collected through
normal Snake movement.
.PP
Finished runs keep visible command-pane output locally under
.IR "${XDG_STATE_HOME:-$HOME/.local/state}/sidequest/runs/" .
Sidequest stores result metadata and pane output, but not the command or
argument list. Use
.B \-\-no-history
for sensitive commands whose output should not be persisted.
.PP
Commands are executed directly. Arguments after
.B --
are preserved as an argument vector and are not passed through a shell.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show help text.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show the Sidequest version.
.TP
.BI \-\-mode " classic|quest"
Select the Snake mode. Classic keeps Snake with Command Heat only. Quest adds
combo scoring, Golden Bytes, one mission, random arena pickups, completion
bonuses and local game statistics.
.TP
.B \-\-no-history
Do not capture or persist command-pane output when the Sidequest session is
closed. No stored run metadata or output file is created for that run. The live
tmux pane scrollback remains visible until the session is closed.
.TP
.B \-\-no-color
Disable colors in Sidequest's own game and UI rendering. The wrapped command's
output is not modified. A non-empty
.B NO_COLOR
environment variable enables the same behavior.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B list
List Sidequest runtime sessions.
.TP
.BI attach " session-id"
Attach to an existing Sidequest tmux session.
.TP
.B runs
List recent stored runs.
.TP
.BI show " last|run-id"
Show stored result metadata and the output path.
.TP
.BI output " last|run-id"
Open stored output with
.BR $PAGER ,
or print it to standard output when no pager is configured.
.TP
.BI purge " run-id"
Remove one stored Sidequest run after validating the local run directory.
.SH CONTROLS
.TP
.B F9
Hide or restore Sidequest while keeping the wrapped command and Snake state
alive.
.TP
.B F12
Switch between the game pane and the command pane. Snake focus-pauses while the
command pane is active and resumes when the game pane is active again, unless it
was manually paused.
.TP
.B F10
Detach from the Sidequest tmux session and return to the shell. The session stays
listed for later attach. If the command is still running, Sidequest prints the
attach command after tmux returns to the shell.
.TP
.B WASD or arrow keys
Start and control Snake in the game pane.
.TP
.B P
Toggle manual pause. Manual pause is separate from command-pane focus pause.
.TP
.B C
Continue the same Snake round when the wrapped command has finished and the
round is still playable. The command is not run again, and Command Heat remains
frozen at the level reached when the command ended.
.TP
.B R
Restart Snake after a round over while the command is still running.
.TP
.B Q
Finalize and quit after the wrapped command has reached a terminal state. During
a playable round, the command-finished modal offers
.B C
to continue or
.B Q
to finalize. During a running command, use
.B F9
to hide Sidequest or
.B F10
to detach.
.SH HIGHSCORES
Sidequest keeps at most five scores per mode. Scores are sorted descending and
equal scores keep deterministic insertion order. The result panel marks the
current saved entry independently from the stored player name.
.PP
The default highscore name is resolved from the local user and hostname running
Sidequest. It is not inferred from wrapped commands, SSH arguments, shell
prompts, or remote terminal output.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
Sidequest requires Linux and
.BR tmux (1)
at runtime. Release artifacts currently target linux/amd64 and linux/arm64.
Windows users should run Sidequest inside WSL 2. Native macOS is not supported
yet.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/bin/sidequest
Installed Sidequest executable.
.TP
.I ${HOME}/.local/bin/sidequest
Default user-local install path used by
.BR install.sh .
.TP
.I /usr/share/doc/sidequest/
Installed license and README documentation.
.TP
.I /usr/share/man/man1/sidequest.1
Installed manual page.
.TP
.I ${XDG_STATE_HOME:-$HOME/.local/state}/sidequest/runs/
Local stored run history. Captured terminal output may contain sensitive data
such as tokens, environment values, file contents or application data. Runs
started with
.B \-\-no-history
are not written here.
.TP
.I ${XDG_STATE_HOME:-$HOME/.local/state}/sidequest/game-stats.json
Local game statistics, achievements, and Classic/Quest TOP 5 lists. This file
does not store command names, arguments, output, remote hosts, working
directories or activity timestamps.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Sidequest returns zero when setup and attach handling succeed. The command
runner records the child command result in Sidequest session metadata.
.SH BUGS
Report issues at
.UR https://github.com/WBT112/sidequest/issues
.UE
